---
videoId: 8PrOp9t0PyQ
timestamp: 2130
---
# Unit 2.1: `Quotient`

{% include cs50player.html id=page.videoId timestamp=page.timestamp %}
## Lecture & Questions
### Watch the Chapter 2 lecture to 1:09:54 and answer the questions below. This material is also covered in class.
1. What is assembly code? Why is it that software developers almost never have to write it?
2. What is an IDE?
3. What is a software test?
4. List five things you could do by yourself if you're stuck on a problem.
5. What are data types? Provide examples. 
6. What does it mean to _cast_ data/variables?
7. What does the process of incremental and iterative programming? _In the lecture, David Malan provides a demonstration in the various changes he makes to scores.c_
4. What is an array?

## 'Quotient' Specification
Implement a program in C in a file named `quotient.c` with the following behavior:
- Get two integers from the user called the `dividend` and the `divisor`.
- Print the _floored quotient_ (result of floor division) __AND__ the _remainder_ (result of the modulo (%) operation) of that division. This is the result you would get from doing long division.
- Print the _quotient_ (result of floating point division) to 3 decimal places.
- You don't need to handle invalid inputs or include any comments for this assignment.

## References
In addition to the assigned lecture chunk, you might want to refer to the [short](https://www.youtube.com/embed/q6K8KMqt8wQ) or [reference sheet]({{ site.url }}/assets/pdfs/data_types.pdf) for Data Types from Chapter 1 and the [Typecasting reference sheet]({{ site.url }}/assets/pdfs/typecasting.pdf) from this chapter.


__Example in/out:__
```
dividend: 8
divisor: 3
floored quotient: 2
remainder: 2
quotient: 2.667

```

```
dividend: 9
divisor: 3
floored quotient: 3
remainder: 0
quotient: 3.000

```

```
dividend: 99
divisor: 25
floored quotient: 3
remainder: 24
quotient: 3.960

```

```
dividend: 99
divisor: 0
Floating point exception

```

## Check & Submit
Check style with style50:
```
style50 quotient.c
```

Check functionality with check50:
```
check50 cs-acs/problems/main/quotient
```

Submit with submit50:
```
submit50 cs-acs/problems/main/quotient
```