---
videoId: fykrlqbV9wM
timestamp: 2242
---

# Chunk 3.2: `Sorting Algorithms`
{% include cs50player.html id=page.videoId timestamp=page.timestamp %}

-   Watch the lecture from 37:25 to 1:01:56. We will cover this material in class as well, so you can skip this portion unless you miss class or need reinforcement of the concepts. In-class slides can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15GbqON78q_-7_2NXb4Ctu0dGlAQt7wc6FvuRk6axeMQ/edit?usp=sharing).

## Questions

-   Answer these questions (submit on Classroom):
    -   Describe the Bubble Sort algorithm in your own words (English/pseudocode).
    -   Describe the Selection Sort algorithm in your own words (English/pseudocode).
    -   Describe the Insertion Sort algorithm in your own words (English/pseudocode).
    -   Which Big-O values are considered a "reasonable" run time and which aren't?

## Problem: Selection

- Implement a program in C in a file named `selection.c` which accepts any number of random integers as arguments and sorts them using the selection sort algorithm ([pdf]({{ site.url }}/assets/pdfs/selection_sort.pdf) \| [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hH8kTHFw2A)). Your program should print the array each time it makes a change to it (i.e. swapping two elements). 
    -   Execute `wget https://cs-acs.com/assets/source_code/selection.c` to download this problem’s distribution code.
    -   You will only write the `selection_sort()` function and should not need to modify any of the other distribution code, though all that matters in the end is that it passes the check50 checks.
    -   You don't have to handle any errors other than what is already implemented in the distribution code.
    -   You can assume that all arguments will be positive or negative integers. 
    -   Your program should only print when it swaps elements, so if you give it an array that is already sorted, it will print nothing.

```
$ ./selection 5
```

```
$ ./selection 1 2 3 4 5 6
```

```
$ ./selection -5 10 30 1 5 9 8
-5 1 30 10 5 9 8
-5 1 5 10 30 9 8
-5 1 5 8 30 9 10
-5 1 5 8 9 30 10
-5 1 5 8 9 10 30
```

```
$ ./selection 0 1 60 300 67 82
0 1 60 67 300 82
0 1 60 67 82 300
```

```
$ ./selection 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1                                                                                                                                      
1 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 10
1 2 8 7 6 5 4 3 9 10
1 2 3 7 6 5 4 8 9 10
1 2 3 4 6 5 7 8 9 10
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
```

### Check & Submit
Check style with style50:
```
style50 selection.c
```

Check functionality with check50:
```
check50 cs-acs/problems/main/selection
```

Submit with submit50:
```
submit50 cs-acs/problems/main/selection
```